coming up next on adventurer a chat with
a man who surfs waves the size of
apartment buildings stay tuned
I'm Jim clash and this is adventurer the
show with guests who truly push their
lives to the limits no talking heads
here just the real deals in the wake of
the estimated 75 foot wave surfed last
month at California's Quartus bank we
decided to catch up with a man who knows
something about big waves ten years ago
Ken Bradshaw set a world record for the
largest wave ever surfed an 85-foot
behemoth at outside log cabins reef a
few miles off Hawaii's North Shore the
day was January 28th 1998 known as Big
Wednesday Bradshaw's record still stands
following her excerpts from an interview
conducted just a few miles from where he
set his record the biggest thing I'd
ever seen it was like looking at a four
or five-story building just going
through the ocean without breaking it
was just a big swallow moving to the
ocean tremendous speed because we need a
big about 42 43 4 miles an hour with
stay ahead of it as I begin to reach the
actual wreath and then show up and get
taller and taller as it gets taller
taller you finally have enough inertia
and enough steepness that you leg over
the rope and then you can actually begin
surfing so since I let go the rope dan
pulls away and then I'm going to drop
down we are afraid at all it's funny
it's hard for anybody to really
understand a lifelong passion I mean I
used to sit and watch this particular
area in the ocean braid on those really
big days of Waimea when we couldn't surf
Waimea we were forced to stay on land
because there was no way to get to it
and we actually consider hillsides of
the cliffs under the beach in front of
it look at this way but that weighs
incredible highways top to bottom and
it's got to be 40 feet it's got to have
an 84 face on it we're recording that
the biggest way we had ever seen so to
finally have that day happen to finally
be there for that day to finally
actually ride that place I've always
wanted to serve my whole life like 25
years of waiting for that day
no I wasn't scared I wanted it a lot of
things so bad you go my saw behind me
and I was afraid Dan might not want me
to have it
we were going through that way by River
he's going on the end of the road going
he'll look back and he look at your walk
behind me and you can see in his eyes
and I was afraid he was going to pull
away and afraid he's going to give up I
kept going go it's kept doing this
though don't you stop don't you stop you
know they had to depend on him to get me
there and he didn't believe I could warn
him get over his eyes but he kept
looking over his shoulder he didn't like
what he saw and I can't go go go go you
know so maybe he was a little more
afraid than you were he was a bit more
apprehensive offices the whole day but
the dam didn't have the same passion
that I had Brian giant waves what's it
sound like
sound it's funny at 30 miles an hour an
open car you can realize
when there is now you add the speed of
the wave and then the wind coming up the
face because it probably trade winds
probably offshore so you probably have a
70 mile an hour wind probably the very
crest of the way sometimes
definitely a 40 to 50 mile wind so the
wind is always constant they've always a
roller from the wind they do have the
Thunder of the shaking of shock waves
and the waves itself breaking so you
always feel this thundering roar going
around you but to identify just one over
the other is hard because there's so
much going on there's your senses are
basically almost being overloaded and
for somebody who's not used to it and
not accustomed to it it would be able to
whelming between the noise the speed the
phone the wind the chop they'll be all
shore spray it's all so much going on
that you really have to be focused and
you don't know it's one sound over
another is the constant roller roller
emotion of lore of experiences of roar
of desire how would you feel right now
if somebody broke your world record
it'd be sad and be sad if somebody wrote
a bigger wave right now and I couldn't
get to it
my biggest problem in life right now is
not will or desire this financial
ability I can't get to these waves when
they happen somewhere other than oil and
they're happening everywhere around the
world there's giant waves happening but
every Coast everywhere in the world at
some point belharra friends place on
mahashiv or order in Spain South Africa
place called dungeons on Cape Town was
the place often foe of California :
Cortes banks as one often Burnham de
Blanco is one of the northern Oregon of
the ho lighthouse that they say gets 125
feet it has actually gone over those
swells there's it gone over a lighthouse
at a hard 2015 so the waves exist can we
get to them but no one's ever surfed one
bigger than you but no one has written
what
cool stuff for sure after our interview
Ken took me out on his wave runner in
some thirty foot surf it gave me a tiny
feel for what demons these Daredevils
regularly face 30 footers are nothing to
Ken but my knees are still shaking I'm
Forbes adventurer Jim clash to read my
column pick up Forbes magazine or click
on forbes.com slash adventurer and
thanks for watching the forbes.com video
network